Hey everyone. Now that you've finished setting up your workspace and
installing python. Let's look at how it works with
the project file. So first what you can do is-
"click the download project file in the
content"
and it will be automatically downloaded
in the computer
system.
Open My Computer in your computer system.
Go to any drive that you have
free.
Just create
a new folder.
In this new folder
just drag the zipped downloaded file
and drop in the
new folder.
In the new folder you have your zip file that you've downloaded.
Right click on this file and click extract here. You can
either click extract
here if you have WinRAR
Or you can click extract
here in the 7Zip dropdown.
So you have extracted the data that is in
the zip file.
Open this.
Click on "BMS_main.ino".
Now it's going to cause an error. Let's see what
the error is.
File BMS_main.ino needs to
be inside a folder named BMS_main
The BMS_main.ino is not
inside a folder named BMS_main.
It is inside a folder name BMS_main-main
So you need to
rename this sketch folder as BMS_main
Let's
close all the programs.
Okay.
Let's try again
after renaming
Now BMS underscore main
is the name of the folder. Open this folder and click on the
Arduino file named BMS_main.ino.
Okay. So this is the file that is going to be uploaded on
to the Arduino.
To make
it simpler to read we have split the code into
multiple sections. So in the battery management system
section first while that is
this just outputs of all the data to the
Python program. We'll understand how the Python program works later. But
this is basically the output part but let's look
at the calculation part. There is the battery voltage part.
There is the control part. There is the current
sensor to extract all the current
data the output current from the Arduino of the
battery management system and the temperatures from the
ambient temperature that is the room temperature
and temperature for cell number one and cell number two.
All the calculations happen in the temperatures section.
And all the calculations for the battery voltages happen in the batteryVoltages section. This
section has
all the functions that deal with
controlling the charging discharging of the battery
maintenance system.
So you can send and receive data through here.
So we'll understand how this works much better
in the next level.
So this is basically just click.
First of all select
your Arduino Nano select which
bootloader it needs to be installed on.
select the port
for the code.
And just select upload, once uploaded it will
go on to the BMS.
Then upload it first.
It might take some time to upload depending on your PC and now that it has completed
uploading. Go to tools and then go to
serial monitor.
You need to switch on your BMS.
You will start getting all the data .
There are the iterations and all
the data in the BMS window. You don't have to be able to read this.
This data will go into the Python
program.
The name of Python program is called BMS
_analytics.pi.
Your Arduino is currently COM6 right now. That
is because of USB serial port. All the ports there are
Bluetooths whatever other com ports or
communication ports are available on your PC will be displayed here or not.
But go with the port that says USB-SERIAL CH340 (COM6)
start the battery management system dialog box.
You get to the dashboard and we'll learn how the dashboard
works later.
Thank you.